# Startup-Success-Prediction-using-Machine-Learning

Our main goal was to determine whether an already-running startup will prosper or fail. In order to make a reliable prediction, we employed a data set for predicting startup success that comprised both quantitative and categorical variables. By merging machine learning methods with the Python programming language, we aimed to do this. In order to determine whether or not a startup will prosper, we applied machine learning algorithms. This project's objective was to offer various classification-based insights. For this research, we used three algorithms: Gradient Boosting, Adaptive Boosting, Random Forest, K Nearest Neighbor (KNN), and Logistic Regression. We developed a model that can predict the success of a business in order to assess the startup behavior based on many characteristics and discover which variables have the most impact on startup success. By developing and contrasting various machine learning models, we were able to determine the most effective method for predicting a startup's success rate. Since our output is binary, we chose five machine learning methods for categorization and improved them to produce better results. The algorithm with the highest accuracy was determined to be the best algorithm for our problem dataset after analyzing the results of all machine learning algorithms. The algorithms' outputs were compared, and boosting algorithms had a greater accuracy. The boosting techniques, adaptive boosting and gradient boosting, provide a better indication of a startup's likelihood of success.
